ASSIGNMENT04 - Robotics
Lothar Rubusch
2013-Mar-20

The script was developed using:
  Octave 3.6.2
  Debian Wheezy (x86)

The work is in:
  assignment.m

It should perform all necessary calculations at one step, and prints out several graphs.
Please find also attached several screenshots.


Observations

3)
Both methods show an optimization of the raw data to the sensed data. The Kalman
Filter results seem to look nicer.
Their deviation of the Kalman Filter seems to be less, it has smoother curves.
The higher the window size for the Moving Average Filter, also the smoother the
curve can be, but on the other hand it does not reduce the deviation, thus also
the higher the inertia to react on aprupt changes for the Moving Average Filter.
To come up with better statements on that, the variants help to reveal the
quality in smoothing.

4)
Although comparing a Variance of all Moving Average Filter measurings with
different window sizes seem to be much smoother, there is a tradeoff resulting
in a higher deviation. This is even visible in very smoothed curves having
larger distances to the trend - a certain inertia in reaction, so to speak.
The higher the window size the higher also the deviation.
It is remarkable, though, the tremendous gain in variance reduction by the
Kalman Filter in comparison to any of the Moving Average Models.

See the plotted graphs of Variances and comparison for more details. It underpins
the statement about the gain in reducing the variance by the Kalman Filter in
comparison to the Moving Average Filter.

---

Just for interest, I tried to compare the Moving Average Filter with a self
constructed Moving Median filter. From my personal experience in statistics
especially working with not necessarily gaussian distributed data, a Mean
sometimes gives more robust results, i.e. in cases where a distribution may
show two peaks and not one. In such case a mean averages to a value in the
middle, but actually only few measurements are actually showing this value.
To the opinion of the author such situations happen also in the current
case, at least when sudden changes appear. The median in such cases may give
more robust results, since it will return results that actually are closer
to the measured data. Although the results are not at all comparable with
the outstanding work of a Kalman Filter, it is remarkable that at least in
my calculation the median provides even here better results than the moving
average mean, in terms of variance or deviation, respectively. Interesting
in this context may having a look also on the mode instead of median, even
that both will probably free of practical usage. Figure 5 may though
contain still some interesting information on certain behavior of the both
in special situations of the recorded movement data (e.g. groupings and
correlation to each other and where it is less).

I am aware that it was not asked and doesn't give answer on any of the
questions of the assignment.

Best regards,
Lothar Rubusch


